[MUSIC]
In this video,
we're implementing some UI where we
have our grayed out defender images.
When we click on an image,
it changes that image to be selected.
So that we're giving the player visual
feedback on what they can then place into
the scene.
So let's jump in and get started.
Okay, we have a Cactus and we have
a Trophy, both of which are defenders.
Let's make ourselves some UI now.
So jump over into the hierarchy,
right-click, Create Empty.
We'll call this Buttons,
I think is clear enough, Buttons.
And then within Buttons we need to have,
well, because this is in screen space now,
it's in world space, I should say.
Sorry, world space.
So we know here's one, and
there's seven along our x-axis.
I'm gonna create a quad
instead of doing a sprite, and
that will allow us to easily
position it within our world space.
So I right-click on Buttons,
create 3D Object, and then find a Quad,
which is just a flat shape.
It's one side of a cube, if you will.
I'm gonna drag it down to the bottom.
It's okay if it overlaps down the bottom.
But I wanna make sure that it doesn't go
any higher than this line along here,
cuz that's gonna be
the bottom of my play space.
So I'll pop it down in the bottom left.
And what size do we want here?
Let's see, Scale,
I'm gonna increase it up.
I want it to go most of the way across.
So we're gonna have a whole bunch
of buttons to select our UI.
So let's just see how wide we want
it to go, probably all nine squares.
So make it 9.
It's gonna be our background, so
I'll rename it from Quad to Background,
and line it up a little bit more nicelier.
A little bit more nicelier,
is that a word?
I think that's 0.5, no,
that's the wrong way.
-0.5, there we go,
it's looking pretty close.
A little bit off, but
I don't wanna finesse for it too long.
There we go, -0.44.
And -3 on the y, looking good.
Okay, now let's change the color of
it by finding or adding a material.
We have the default material here.
We wanna go and add a new material.
So let's go and create in our Assets
folder, right-click, Create, a new Folder.
We will call it Materials.
A material is something that we can
place over the top of this object here.
Which we've done in other sections of
the course, so it should all be nice and
easy for you.
Right-click, and then Create a Material,
if we can find it.
There it is, Material.
And we'll call this Button Material.
Just to be clear, you can call it whatever
your heart desires, Button Material.
And then we'll change the color.
Actually, first of all,
I'll drag it on top of my background here.
Now when I change the color,
it should update in real time.
What color should we have it,
a bluey kinda color?
[SOUND] Yeah, we'll do it, a purple?
I don't know.
I hate to say it, I don't know about you,
but I often take hours.
Is that color a good color?
What about that color?
And then let's reduce
the transparency a whole bunch.
And we need to change the rendering
mode from Opaque to Transparent, so
that transparency
actually will take place.
Okay, it's in sort of a purple-y
gray kind of thing, which is fine.
It bugs me a little bit that it's hanging
over the bottom of our play space, so
I am gonna go and tidy that up.
You don't have to, just to make the scale
on the y-axis a little bit tighter.
[SOUND] And then drag it up a little bit.
Okay, that's pretty good.
Pretty good, it's still a little bit off,
it's gonna bug me.
But that's fine, I'll move on.
It's all about, done is better
than perfect, as I often say.
So this is done, and
it is definitely better than perfect.
Cuz perfect, we often don't get to,
and we spend so much time chasing it.
So just remind yourself of that.
If it's done, it is done.
Done is better than perfect.
Now what do we need?
Well, we need some buttons
to sit over the top,
buttons that represent
our characters here.
Now I click on the Sprites,
find our Cactus.
And find just any old frame within
here that I think is representative of
how our cactus is gonna look.
That's a good one.
And then from there,
I'm going to drag that one frame,
that one image over onto background.
And that will create Cactus Idle_29.
I'm gonna rename that to just Cactus,
so it's nice and clear.
Let's see if we can find where that is.
And you can see, it's hiding underneath.
So we need to change in our Sprite
Renderer, change the order in layer.
We'll make this 7, I think.
If you look at our background,
because it's a 3D object, technically, if
we click off 2D here, we can see that we
can move our background in and out here.
It's a 2D object.
We're not seeing the same information we
often do when we have the Sprite Renderer.
But I can just bring it, which way
am I going, negative or positive?
Yeah, negative.
I'll just bring it forward a little bit,
just to make triply sure that it's not
accidentally gonna be in line with my
world background in there, so just -0.05.
Okay, that's pretty good.
Get my Cactus image, click on W.
Move it to roughly,
I'll have it the first one along actually.
And it's too big, so
I'm gonna scale it down.
Okay, click on the Cactus.
I'm gonna click on my E tool.
Just drag it down a little bit,
make it a bit smaller.
Okay, and
just drop it roughly in the middle.
Okay, that's pretty good.
So I've got a Cactus,
that's where I want it to be.
Now I'm gonna go grab my trophy.
So let's go and find the Sprites.
Where are our Sprites, where in there?
Trophy, find a trophy that's
indicative of how our trophy looks.
We've got the top and the bottom.
You know what, somewhere,
we had our trophy whole.
Okay, I'm just gonna go grab trophy whole.
And I should drag that into the,
we are using it, so
I'll put it into my trophy folder,
to say that we're using it.
Now, trophy whole, I'll go and
drag on top of my background.
We'll rename it from trophy whole,
to just plain old Trophy.
Trophy, okay, change the order to 7
as well, make sure it sits on top.
Drag it over and
put it in the second slot there.
It's a little bit small, so
I'm gonna make it just a tiny bit bigger.
My R tool, did I say R last time?
I think I might have said E.
I'm not looking at
the keyboard as I type it.
I don't know about you.
I just tend to bang on QWER until
I find the one that looks right.
So I haven't properly learned
in my brain which letter it is,
cuz I'm never looking at the letter.
I'm just E, yeah, that's rotate.
R, okay, that's scales.
That's how I kinda do it.
Okay, so we've got these two here.
Now we need to black them out,
to say when you're not selected,
you're just going to be a kinda washed
out color, grayed out, if you will.
So grab the gray,
bring it all the way down.
So there's still a little bit of
definition, but it looks grayed out.
And then I'll do the same for
my Cactus, if I can find Cactus.
There you are.
And drag this down, down, down, down.
If you want, you can highlight
the hexidecimal code here, copy that.
And then find your other one.
When I say say other one, for
me now, the other one is trophy.
Click on Color, and
then you could paste that in there.
There we go, and
that's how you could do it if you
want to have it exactly the same.
So now we've got these two that
are grayed out, looking pretty spiffy.
We need to have it so that when we
click on them, they change to white.
They change to a color that
we can access and use.
And that's where I'm gonna
give you a challenge.
So I know you're up to this challenge, and
the challenge is to change
the button to white.
So we need to add a collider
to each button, remember that?
We found that a couple of videos ago.
Add a collider, and
then to create a DefenderButton script.
And then use onMouseDown( ) to change
the color from black to white.
Mostly we're saying change it to white.
And I've got a hint for you.
If you look at that and you're like,
I don't know how to change
the color of things, Rick.
If you wanna go search through
the documents and dig into that,
solve it like a sleuth,
you can do that now.
Otherwise, I'll give you a hint, which is
the very specific line you need to use.
So pause the video now
if that's all you need.
If you need one last bit of information,
then here it is.
Is you can use this line of code,
GetComponent.
Remember, we need to get the component,
the SpriteRenderer.color.
And to change it, = Color.white.
So there's your mission if
you choose to accept it.
I'll see you back here
when you've got it done.
Okay, so first up,
let's create our colliders.
Click on Cactus.
Find, or Add Component, not finding it.
Collider, we're already halfway,
typed in Box Collider 2D.
That's looking pretty good,
it's getting around the outside.
We don't wanna accidentally have it
in the play space, that'd be bad.
That's okay if it drops down
the bottom a little bit.
And we can tidy this up,
I'm gonna do it manually for now.
You can get it very precise.
I'll leave a little bit of
a gap between the two objects.
I think that is fine.
Yeah, I think that is cool.
Trophy, add a box collider to you,
Box Collider 2D, and drag it out.
We can see our underneath,
we can see the line.
I'm just flowing down there.
Bring it down to the bottom of the screen.
Bring it up to nearly
the top of the screen,
and you can see what's the size of it.
0.84 by 0.71 is pretty
much the size of that.
Okay, so
we've got colliders on those two objects.
Fantastic, just save all that up.
Next up, go into my Scripts folder.
Actually, I'm gonna do
this the other way around.
I'll show you, if you highlight Trophy and
Cactus > Add Component.
And then type in,
what should we call this?
Sorry, DefenderButton,
what did I ask you to call it?
DefenderButton, yeah.
Read your slides, Rick.
Yes, I will, good advice.
DefenderButton, capital B we need there,
Button.
That'll create and add,
that'll add to these two game objects.
Excellente, I'm gonna just
tweak that Cactus a tiny bit.
Cuz it'll bug me if I don't have it
lining up the same as the Trophy.
There we go, that's looking better.
Okay, so let's find our script,
drag it into our Scripts folder.
And then open that up,
where is it, DefenderButton.
Righty-o, I'm gonna to
get rid of Start and
Update, don't need those at the moment.
What I do need to do is have
an onMouseDown event that we're
listening for.
And here I'll use the line that
I had before, GetComponent.
GetComponent, and that's
the SpriteRenderer that we need to access.
SpriteRenderer, that's a method.
.color, we're accessing the color,
and we wanna change that to Color.white.
Save that up.
Back over into Unity, click on Play.
That should start grayed out.
And then when we click on them,
boom, it becomes white.
And that becomes white as well.
Now that's a little bit of a problem
that they stay white forever.
So let's get out of that,
jump back over into Unity.
What do we need to do here?
Well, we need to have that each
time we're clicking the mouse,
we reset everything back to black.
And we only have the one
we've clicked on be white.
So the way I'm gonna do that
is by using a foreach loop.
We haven't properly
discussed foreach loops yet.
So let's have a quick
conversation about that.
They're pretty simple.
They're very similar to the for
loops that we've done before.
And foreach loops allows us to do
something to each item in a collection.
So a collection is a group of things.
It could be a list, or
it could be an array.
And I have an example below of just
some code syntax where we have
a collection of monsters.
So think about this.
We might have monsters, or
attackers, or dogs, or elephants,
whatever it is that
you've got in your game.
But we'll say there's a collection of
monsters and they're of type Enemy.
So our monsters are of type Enemy.
This is how it might look.
We might say foreach, and
then in parentheses, Enemy.
This is the type,
it's important to put that first.
And then we're talking about
this collection of monsters.
We'll say, for example, there's ten
monsters in this collection of monsters.
I don't know how many there is.
But for each of those monsters,
we want to do a thing.
So for each monster in monsters, the first
one, the second one, the third one,
the fourth one, and so on,
then we want to do these things.
That's where we execute our code block.
So that's a foreach loop,
it's pretty simple.
Let's implement that now in our game,
using our buttons.
So we'll be substituting.
Instead of monsters, we'll have
a grouping, a collection of buttons.
And then we're looking to do
a certain thing to each button in our
collection of buttons.
So let's, at the start of our OnMouseDown,
we'll create a variable
that we'll call buttons.
buttons, and
we'll say buttons = FindObjectOfType.
ObjectsOfType, sorry,
make sure ObjectsOfType.
Cuz we're looking through many objects,
we're not looking at just one.
We wanna find a whole bunch of objects,
and
that's what these buttons are gonna be.
And this will be of type DefenderButton.
So look for all of the DefenderButtons
that you can find,
parenthesis at the end here.
Now, foreach, so
we're saying foreach(DefenderButton).
So for every DefenderButton that we have,
we're going to look for
something that we'll
call button in buttons.
So this is the buttons,
the variable we've made.
We're saying, we're looking for
all of the DefenderButtons.
And then for each of our
DefenderButton type, we're looking for
a button in buttons, in this list
of buttons that we've created here.
That's a lot of buttons.
And then what do we do?
Well, we'll say button.getComponent.
That's this button here
we're referring to.
button.getComponent<SpriteRenderer>().co-
lor.
And that's gonna equal what?
= new Color32, so
that we can use our 32-bit color.
Here, if we click back on our Color, we
can have the 0 to 255, which is Color32.
We can have RBG 0 to 1,
which is giving it in decimal places.
We can use either of those two.
We're gonna use this 0 to 255, so we can
use the standard RGB and alpha numbers.
We'll just alpha that out a little bit,
colors we wanna have in there.
So, new Color32(41, 41, 41, 255).
They were the numbers
that we had in there.
Save that up, let's make sure this works.
Back over into Unity, click on Play.
When I say black,
I mean this kind of grayed out color.
Click on that, click on the other one.
You can see it's toggling between the two,
magic and wonderful.
And if we had a whole bunch of them,
then we would lay them out.
Which we will later on in the game.
We'll have more defenders,
we can click on more as we go.
But this is the framework now for
having our selectable buttons,
that we can now hook up our code
to say when you click on that,
that we actually do place
that into the game.
At the moment,
we're just placing in the Cactus.
And that'll be the topic for
our next video, see you then.